KAGGLE.COM
BIKE SHARING DEMAND

Forecast use of a city bikeshare system

Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return
is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from
a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing
programs around the world.

The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure
location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor
network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. In this competition, participants are asked to combine
historical usage patterns with weather data in order to forecast bike rental demand in the Capital Bikeshare program
in Washington, D.C.

Acknowledgements

Kaggle is hosting this competition for the machine learning community to use for fun and practice. This dataset was
provided by Hadi Fanaee Tork using data from Capital Bikeshare. We also thank the UCI machine learning repository for
hosting the dataset. If you use the problem in publication, please cite:

Fanaee-T, Hadi, and Gama, Joao, Event labeling combining ensemble detectors and background knowledge, Progress
in Artificial Intelligence (2013): pp. 1-15, Springer Berlin Heidelberg.

You are provided hourly rental data spanning two years. For this competition, the training set is comprised of the first
19 days of each month, while the test set is the 20th to the end of the month. You must predict the total count of bikes
rented during each hour covered by the test set, using only information available prior to the rental period.

Data Fields

datetime - hourly date + timestamp
season -  1 = spring, 2 = summer, 3 = fall, 4 = winter
holiday - whether the day is considered a holiday
workingday - whether the day is neither a weekend nor holiday
weather - 1: Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
2: Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
3: Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
4: Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
temp - temperature in Celsius
atemp - "feels like" temperature in Celsius
humidity - relative humidity
windspeed - wind speed
casual - number of non-registered user rentals initiated
registered - number of registered user rentals initiated
count - number of total rentals